[KPT CODELAB] (2/3) kpt  config validation (#5026)
GoogleContainerTools/skaffold: codelab/01_kpt-validate/README.md

# Validate Your Configurations in skaffold Workflow

This codelab introduces how to validate your app configurations before deploying them to the cluster. You are **not** required to know `kpt` or `skaffold` before starting the codelab. 

> After this session, you should be obtain more powerful tools to validate and manage your configurations.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
After this session, you will have obtained more powerful tools to validate and manage your configurations.
```

Author: thanks

## What is kpt?

Kpt is [an OSS tool](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kpt) for Kubernetes packaging, which uses a standard format to bundle, publish, customize, update, and apply configuration manifests.

> ## What kpt can help you

Reviewer 2: I think this should be "What kpt can help you with" or "How kpt can help you"

Author: done.

> ## What kpt can help you in skaffold

Reviewer: nit (same in tutorial.md):
```suggestion
## What kpt can help you with in skaffold
```

Author: shortened the sentence.

-  You can validate each of your config changes **declaratively**.
-  You will get an hands-on off-the-shelf experience about the **GitOps** CI/CD workflow in skaffold.

> -  You **won't **encounter** version conflict** if the config hydration (a.k.a kustomize) mismatch with the deployment tool (e.g. kubectl). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  You **won't** encounter **version conflict** if the config hydration (a.k.a kustomize) mismatch with the deployment tool (e.g. kubectl). 
```

Author: done.

-  You can prune your resources accurately with [a three-way merge strategy](https://kubectl.docs.kubernetes.io/pages/app_management/field_merge_semantics.html). 

## What you'll learn

-  How to add a validation to your config changes. 
-  How to define validation rules in the form of a declarative pipeline.
-  How to use the validation in kustomized resources. 
-  How to reconcile your configuration changes with the live state

You can try out this interactive codelab using [Cloud Shell](https://cloud.google.com/shell). 

> [![Open in Cloud Shell](https://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.png)](https://ssh.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/open?cloudshell_git_repo=https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/skaffold&cloudshell_working_dir=codelab/01_kpt-validate&cloudshell_workspace=codelab/01_kpt-validate&cloudshell_tutorial=tutorial.md)

Author: FYI, this link will work once the PR is merged. To test out this PR, please use link 
https://ssh.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/open?cloudshell_git_repo=https://github.com/yuwenma/skaffold&cloudshell_working_dir=codelab/01_kpt-validate&cloudshell_workspace=codelab/01_kpt-validate&cloudshell_tutorial=tutorial.md

Reviewer 3: tried this link but it still complains
```
Tutorial file /home/gaghosh/cloudshell_open/skaffold/codelab/01_kpt-validate/tutorial.md does not exist or is not a file
```

Author: Oh, that is because the link uses the "master" branch as default, but the tutorials.md  is in the "validate-1" branch.   

I've merged both validate-1 and deploy-2 branch to my master. They should work now. Do you mind trying again?

# Validate Your Configurations in skaffold Workflow

This codelab introduces how to validate your app configurations before deploying them to the cluster. You are **not** required to know `kpt` or `skaffold` before starting the codelab. 

After this session, you should be obtain more powerful tools to validate and manage your configurations.

## What is kpt?

Kpt is [an OSS tool](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kpt) for Kubernetes packaging, which uses a standard format to bundle, publish, customize, update, and apply configuration manifests.

## What kpt can help you in skaffold

-  You can validate each of your config changes **declaratively**.

> -  You will get an hand-on off-the-shelf experience about the **GitOps** CI/CD workflow in skaffold.

Author: thanks

> -  You will get an hand-on off-the-shelf experience about the **GitOps** CI/CD workflow in skaffold.

Reviewer 2: I think this will need to be duplicated in tutorial.md as well since the content is a duplicate

> -  You will get an hand-on off-the-shelf experience about the **GitOps** CI/CD workflow in skaffold.

Author: done

> -  You **won't **encounter** version conflict** if the config hydration (a.k.a kustomize) mismatch with the deployment tool (e.g. kubectl). 

Author: When rendered, the bold are "wont" and "version conflict". Updated.

-  You can prune your resources accurately with [a three-way merge strategy](https://kubectl.docs.kubernetes.io/pages/app_management/field_merge_semantics.html). 

## What you'll learn

-  How to add a validation to your config changes. 
-  How to define validation rules in the form of a declarative pipeline.
-  How to use the validation in kustomized resources. 
-  How to reconcile your configuration changes with the live state

TODO(yuwenma): Update the link after the first tutorial.md is merged.
 

> [![Open in Cloud Shell](https://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.png)](https://ssh.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/open?cloudshell_git_repo=https://github.com/yuwenma/skaffold&cloudshell_working_dir=codelab/kpt-101&cloudshell_workspace=codelab/kpt-101&cloudshell_tutorial=tutorial.md)

Reviewer 2: Maybe have a little mention of what cloud shell is and why they should use it for the tutorial

Author: Good point.

## What is kpt?

Kpt is [an OSS tool](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kpt) for Kubernetes packaging, which uses a standard format to bundle, publish, customize, update, and apply configuration manifests.

## What kpt can help you in skaffold

-  You can validate each of your config changes **declaratively**.
-  You will get an hands-on off-the-shelf experience about the **GitOps** CI/CD workflow in skaffold.
-  You **won't **encounter** version conflict** if the config hydration (a.k.a kustomize) mismatch with the deployment tool (e.g. kubectl). 
-  You can prune your resources accurately with [a three-way merge strategy](https://kubectl.docs.kubernetes.io/pages/app_management/field_merge_semantics.html). 

## What you'll learn

-  How to add a validation to your config changes. 
-  How to define validation rules in the form of a declarative pipeline.
-  How to use the validation in kustomized resources. 
-  How to reconcile your configuration changes with the live state

TODO(yuwenma): Update the link after the first tutorial.md is merged.

You can try out this interactive codelab using [Cloud Shell](https://cloud.google.com/shell). 

> [![Open in Cloud Shell](https://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.png)](https://ssh.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/open?cloudshell_git_repo=https://github.com/yuwenma/skaffold&cloudshell_working_dir=codelab/kpt-101&cloudshell_workspace=codelab/kpt-101&cloudshell_tutorial=tutorial.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[![Open in Cloud Shell](https://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.png)](https://ssh.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/open?cloudshell_git_repo=https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/skaffold&cloudshell_working_dir=codelab/kpt-101&cloudshell_workspace=codelab/kpt-101&cloudshell_tutorial=tutorial.md)
```

Reviewer 3: I couldn't get this tutorial to work. I think maybe you reset your fork's master to #5028. You can also add a branch filter to the url with `&cloudshell_git_branch`

Author: Right, This will work once the PR is merged 😄  You can try it out by using https://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.png)](https://ssh.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/open?cloudshell_git_repo=https://github.com/yuwenma/skaffold&cloudshell_working_dir=codelab/kpt-101&cloudshell_workspace=codelab/kpt-101&cloudshell_tutorial=tutorial.md

Author: Actually, the path also needs to be updated. Done
